Good afternoon. Again, we understand that our ritual motivation of the bodhijata, also in the
teaching, known as Vasmus motivation of the bodhijata, expanding, increasing and activating that
motivation, that intention.
And then, as well as also purity under the strength of the Vajrayana teaching on the Bhagavata
teaching. Bring up that, because we are practicing the Vajrayanas, and so therefore bring those
beautiful qualities.
All is nature of our mind. All is nature. We are not doing any alien or any strange things. Because
the Buddha teaching is absolutely best on the nature where things are.
So, we are exploring our beauty on our nature. That is all about it.
Now, with this understanding, we move to the luminous clay essence teachings of Vyamma Maharajas.
And now, this teaching is the first kind of lay out as a ground Tantra, or as I said, foundation
Tantra, part Tantra, resolve Tantras.
And Tantra, I said, and you must also read this book, and Tantra is our mind stream, nature of the
mind.
Tantra means continuations. We is continued from the bigger less times, is continued. Until now, it
will continue in the future.
Therefore, it is unceasing, flowing of our system of the mind, or the mind stream. That is basic
Tantra.
Basic or the foundation of the ground Tantra is totally emptiness.
Beyond that existing and non-existing, neither and either as teaching always says.
In the Mahayana teaching, Mademaka teaching, Dzogchi teaching. It is the same thing.
There is not many different ground, many different foundation, many different verse.
We are touching the same ground, same verse, where we are touching the Dzogchi teaching or
practices, Mahamadhara practices, or any Vayayana practices, or any teachings.
Actually, same thing, we are touching to that nature. That nature is your nature of mind, my nature
of mind.
Here, say, ground Tantra, ground Pandryaka Tantra.
Since we have this beautiful ground Tantra or the Pandryaka Tantra, therefore, now we like to
discover.
Why we like to discover? Because we are out of the game, in a way, out of our nature systems.
We are carried by the force of the energy of the flowing of ground, energy for this nature.
That is known as duality. Duality is the force of the flowing nature systems, energy.
If we didn't grasp it, clinging, duality is fine. That energy is perfectly fine.
But since we grasp it, clinging. Clinging is not natural. Grasping is not the nature.
Therefore, we dilute it because of dualities, because of the grasping.
Today, when we follow the path of the Tantra, we are transcendenting, releasing of that duality or
that grasping and clinging.
That is what. In order to discover this nature, in order to follow that, going back to the nature
as it is,
then, first, the most important is the will. Will is so important because that's the will, that one
.
That's the one in which we reverse back to our nature, all homes with home, home to sweet home, by
this.
Otherwise, we would like to do something, but we look at something in different directions.
That's what we've been. We're thinking we like to do the good things for ourselves, to the others
too.
But we did that. We missed the point. We're looking at the wrong directions, wrong things, always
looking something different.
This time, we're looking back to the natural way things are.
Looking into the natural way things are is known as will. Will is when we think of will as one.
For example, in the world, what we call subject and object. What is this will? Will is subject or
will is object.
Think that, and since we're here, we started, think that if this will is subject or will is object.
Will is subject. Will is your understanding.
Your understanding of intelligence are sharpening, expanding, and looking to all the territories of
the subject.
Subject, but automatically is subject, your mind. Will. Will.
The object is not going to view us. The subject is going to view us. It's our intelligence.
Therefore, will is so important. Will is like light that we are going to continually keep up all
the way to the enlightenment.
This is what is like light. It will usher us. It will bring back to our best or ground.
It will always be activating, refining, activating. It will like, when it's like modern time here,
what's called time release.
It will make time release adjustment of the realization, bring back to our track, track so that we
're not lost in our track.
Therefore, will is so important. I mean, this is the foundation.
When you follow the path, path that with will, with means, all the other activities, such as they
are listed in the nine or eleven different things or ten different things.
It is all the means of activating the will. Activating, refining, glorifying, deepening of our
realization of the will.
This is all about that, about this. Therefore, will is so important. For those reasons, the Buddha
is teaching.
As K.T. Pandey here, when you said many times, satay, and when it's in Tibet, rakpati, hyapso, dem
ba, med, have the beautiful will and with solid standing.
Standing with, solid standing with footsteps, our footsteps. We're going to walk as we see.
That is known as looking to our path and walking with that. It's beauty walks. That is beauty walks
.
And not looking to the path and walking on the, somewhere walking that. That is dangerous walks, I
think.
That is, that will lead you, you don't know where you're going to lead.
But when you walk with the eye, that is beauty walks. Will is like eye. Will is like light.
That will assure us our path, clear way and bring the brightness and goodness.
So that is the other meaning of this will is so important.